2013 Classic Edwardian Steel Launch for sale
Used 2013 Classic Edwardian Steel Launch for sale with name "WATER LYON" is located in Bray (England, United Kingdom). The Classic shipyard constructed and designed this vessel in 2013. Key features 2013 Classic Edwardian Steel Launch: length 13.72 metres, beam 3.51 metres and max boat draft 0.99 metres. 1 x Yanmar engine: fuel type - diesel. Total berths - 4. 2013 Classic Edwardian Steel Launch is classified under the following categories: river boats, powerboats, antique classic power boats and river cruise boats. The boat is available for purchase at a price of $418,138. contact the offerer buy Classic Edwardian Steel Launch and get price details!


Description
This is a charming wide beam boat that I designed and had built by Trickett boat builders in 2012. She is basically a steel wide beam but much of her is clad in varnished teak so she has a very traditional classic look. She makes a wonderful year round houseboat with a wood burner and warm air heating for winter and lots of opening windows for the summer. I have enjoyed living aboard for 12 months. There are large opening windows, and full width doors to the forward cockpit allowing a real outdoor feeling from within the saloon. There is a cover for the forward cockpit so it can be an extra room in the winter. Double opening doors in the aft cabin allow for morning tea in bed watching the river. At night the wood burner and full length curtains create an inviting space, and allow cruising year round. A great deal of time went into choosing builders, and the design and fit out reflected a lifetime of enjoying boats on the Thames. The quality of the woodwork is exceptional and all external woodwork is reclaimed teak decking from an Italian ocean liner. The internal pine is from an old brewery. The team of craftsmen set out to build the best boat they possibly could. For example all teak deck planks are curved into a king plank, not just easily laid in straight lines. A large single piece of elm forms all worksurfaces in the galley, and shelf in aft cabin. The steering wheel was sourced from an Austin Healey 3000. Close inspection reveals a myriad of details in the woodwork that contribute to the wonderful overall impression the boat makes. She can also be tiller steered from the stern and controls including bow thruster are repeated there.

Underwater blacking September 2021. Major engine service June 2024. New sacrificial anodes July 2021. BSS certificate valid until April 2026. The varnish work is actually Coelan which has stood the test of time very well. In the winter of 2022/2023 I returned her to the builders for a full strip down and revarnishing with Coelan. The first coat was still in mostly very good condition after 10 years but I decided to redo it because the cover had chafed at some points and doing only a few sections would not have looked right.
Reason for Sale: Its very hard to part with this glorious boat. But I have retired and have a project to explore the French rivers and Water Lyon is just not suitable for the rough and tumble of large locks in France. I have bought a steel Dutch built cruiser for this voyage and cannot maintain both boats. So Water Lyon is up for sale. Attractive island mooring in Abingdon may be transferable to new owner.



For Sale: Charming Widebeam liveaboard     £199,000
Specifications
Vessel type:Edwardian replica launch
Designer:Tim Tyler/Trickett boats
Builder:Tim Tyler/w Trickett
Model:One off launch
Fit Out:Trickett boats
Constructed:2013
Berths:4
No. of engines:1
Engine model:Barrus
Engine hours:750
Fuel type:Diesel
Drive type:Shaft drive
Length over all:45'
Length at waterline:40'
Beam:11' 6"
Maximum draft:3' 3"
Bridge clearance:7' 3"
Hull material:Steel
Hull type:displacement
Hull colour:green
Keel type:Full Keel
Dry Weight:23 metric tons
Fuel capacity:250 Litres
Water capacity:250 Litres
Holding tank capacity:100 Litres