Ninigret, based on Atkin’s fact sheet and profile, looked to be a practical yet elegant powerboat. Though longer than the 19’ Albury, the Ninigret is powered by an outboard with only one-third of the power of the Albury’s (30 horsepower versus 90). Ninigret is not as beamy, either (6'8" versus 6'10" for the Albury), nor as heavy (2,070 pounds versus 2,400).

In the Ninigret I found the potential for a capable, efficient, and graceful boat, one able to deliver peace on the water, which was my personal goal. I bought the plans and set to work, hoping to build the boat entirely by myself.

As an older person I am more able to recognize and adjust to my limitations than others I know. I soon realized, for example, that twisting and gluing 3/8" marine plywood from a vertical at the stem to a horizontal at the stern would require lots of strength and many hands. I also realized that building the hull by myself would take too much time, so I contracted with the boatshop at the Maine Maritime Museum in Bath, Maine, where I was already a volunteer, to build the hull, with the intention of finishing the rest at home. This approach worked well for me and makes sense for anyone with moderate woodworking skills, who nonetheless might be concerned about the time requirements, the complexity, and even the cost of building a boat entirely at home. Other than the boatshop’s director, Kurt Spiridakis, the hull was built entirely by us volunteers. 

In time saved and problems solved, paying the boatshop to build Ninigret’s hull actually saved me money in the long run. It also gave me a psychological boost as I settled in to complete the build, and enabled me to finish the boat within a reasonable time schedule.

This hybrid way of building a boat also made sense to show-goers at last summer’s WoodenBoat Show in Mystic, Connecticut, where I displayed the almost-finished boat. I explained to anyone who asked that the hull was built in a museum’s boat shop and that I finished the boat in my garage. The idea appealed particularly to folks who, like myself, might shy away from a scratch boatbuilding project, but who could imagine building a boat in a garage to work on as time permitted. Actually, the people who admired the Ninigret the most were middle-aged or older, lured, most probably, by the boat’s good looks, its economy of design, and its obvious practicality. One older gentleman took a long look at Ninigret, then turned to me and said: “it’s everything I need, and all I’ll ever want.”

Billy Atkin and his son John designed boats from the early 1900s into the 1980s. Many are classics such as Ingrid, Maid of Endor, and Rescue Minor. The Ninigret, designed by John, is one of his best-known designs: it is a practical, multi-use boat that anyone can enjoy and appreciate. Its cabin provides protection from the weather and sleeps two if you choose to go out overnight. Its 8' cockpit has room for four people to sit in comfort. A 30-hp 4-cycle outboard pushes the Ninigret along at an honest 18 mph (with one person aboard) or at 12-15 mph with up to four aboard. The outboard motor hangs off an inner transom, about 3' inboard from the stern, so the hull extends beyond and around the motor giving added lift and buoyancy in the stern. 

When I first launched my boat, the Annie B I noticed that the bow barely lifted when power was applied, and concluded that a flat-running boat is much more comfortable than a boat with its bow high in the air. I also noted how smooth the ride was, and how the cabin, with its two cushioned bunks and porta-potty, provided a sense of comfort and security. 

Based on online discussion and sales of its plans, the 22' Ninigret seems to be more and more popular as time goes by. The boat is trailerable, comfortable, able, and economical to build and run. She also, without question, has beautiful and much-admired lines. 

In every sense, my Annie B is, indeed, everything I want and all I’ll ever need. 